Tips for samba dancing.
We are going to talk about three.
One is posture, how to have a nice posture
while doing your samba steps.
First of all, you want to make sure that your
knees are soft.
That's going to take the pressure off your
lower back, and that's going to keep your
hips nice and neutral.
Also, that soft knee is going to give you
the bouncing movement, and that's the number
two.
Having that soft knee is going to give you
the bouncing movement that we do use with
the basic samba steps, the basic footwork.
Posture, it is important to have your chest
nice and open, so really lift it up.
Connect it with the abdominals.
Roll the shoulders all the way back and down
so you have a nice, nice, nice long neck and
you have a nice, wide chest keeping it all
the way down.
The third tip that we are going to talk about
is breathing, how to breathe during your basic
samba step.
You do not want to go all of the sudden out
of breath, and can't breathe and can no longer
dance.
So, just make sure you're breathing in and
out through the whole time, right.
Remember to never hold your breath, because
if you do then you're just going to have to
let it go out your mouth.
You want to have nice and easy small breaths
in and out the whole time.
One of the most complete breaths is the diaphragm
breath.
It's all the way in here into your belly.
So if you fill with air and exhale and get
the air out that's going to give you the nice
support that you need to keep up with your
intricate samba steps without running out
of breath.
So, three tips.
Posture is shoulders back and down, nice and
long neck, hips nice and neutral, and knees
soft.
Two: small, soft knees bouncing as you do
your samba step.
Three: breathe through the whole time.